“For that reason, then, Subhūti, a bodhisattva should conceive an aspiration in such a way that
it is unfixed. He should not conceive an aspiration which is fixed in form, he should
not conceive an aspiration which is fixed in sounds, smells, tastes, objects of touch, or
dharmas, he should not conceive an aspiration which is fixed in anything at all.Subhūti, it
is as if, say, there were a man, whose personal presence was such that it was like, say,
Sumeru, the king of all mountains. What do you think, Subhūti? Would his personal presence
be substantial?”Subhūti said, “His personal presence would be substantial, Lord, it would
be substantial, Blessed One. Why is that, Lord? The Realized One has described it as an
absence. That is why it is called ‘a personal presence.’ For it is not a presence. That is
why it is called ‘a personal presence.’”

The Lord said, “What do you think, Subhūti? If there were just as many Ganges Rivers as there
are grains of sand in the Ganges River, would the grains of sand in them be numerous?”Subhūti
said, “That many Ganges Rivers alone would be numerous, Lord, to say nothing of the
grains of sand in them.”The Lord said, “I’ll tell you, Subhūti, I’ll have you know—if there
were as many world-systems as there would be grains of sand in those Ganges Rivers, and
some woman or man were to fill them with the seven treasures and make a gift of them to the
Realized, Worthy and Perfectly Awakened Ones, what do you think, Subhūti, would that woman
or man generate a lot of merit on that basis?”Subhūti said, “A lot, Lord, a lot, Blessed
One. That woman or man would generate a lot of merit on that basis.”The Lord said, “If,
however, someone were to fill that many world-systems with the seven treasures and make a
gift of them, Subhūti, and if someone were to do no more than learn just a four-lined verse
from this round of teachings and teach it to others, the latter would generate from that
a lot more merit, an immeasurable and incalculable amount.

“However, Subhūti, the piece of ground where one might do no more than recite or teach just
a four-lined verse from this round of teachings would become a veritable shrine for the whole
world with its gods, humans and anti-gods, so it goes without saying, Subhūti, that those
who will memorize this round of teachings will come to be endowed with the most marvellous
thing, and on that piece of ground the Teacher himself dwells, or one or another of his
venerable lieutenants.”

