“What do you think, Subhūti? Does any dharma at all exist to which the Realized One became fully
awakened as supreme and perfect awakening?”He said, “No dharma whatsoever exists to which
the Realized One became fully awakened as supreme and perfect awakening.”The Lord said,
“Quite so, Subhūti, quite so. Not even a fine or minute (aṇu) dharma is to be found or
apprehended in it. That is why it is called ‘superfine or supreme (anuttarā) and perfect awakening.’

“However, Subhūti, that dharma is the same as any other (sama), and there is nothing at all
different (viṣama) about it. That is why it is called ‘supreme and perfect (samyak) awakening.’By
virtue of being devoid of a soul, being devoid of a living being and being devoid
of a person, that supreme and perfect awakening is fully awakened to as being the same as
all wholesome dharmas.These so-called ‘wholesome dharmas,’ Subhūti, have been preached by
the Realized One as being indeed dharma-less. That is why they are called ‘wholesome dharmas.’

“If, however, someone were to amass piles of the seven treasures as high as all the Sumerus,
kings of all mountains, in the trigalactic megagalactic world-system and give them as a gift,
Subhūti, and if someone else were to do no more than learn just a four-lined verse from
this Perfection of Insight and teach it to others, then the former quantity of merit, Subhūti,
does not approach even a hundredth part of the latter quantity of merit and so on,
until nor does it even permit of any analogy.

“What do you think, Subhūti? Does it occur to the Realized One that he has liberated living
beings? This is again not the way one should see things, Subhūti.Why is that? There is no
living being whatsoever who has been liberated by the Realized One. If moreover there were
any living being who was liberated by the Realized One, Subhūti, that would constitute seizing
upon a self on his part, seizing upon a living being, seizing upon a soul, seizing upon
a person.This ‘seizing upon a self,’ Subhūti, has been preached by the Realized One as
devoid of seizing, but it is learned by foolish ordinary people.These ‘foolish ordinary people,’
Subhūti, have been preached by the Realized One as peopleless. That is why they are
called ‘foolish ordinary people.’

